---
title: 古典音乐导论:学习笔记
tags: ['Classical-Music']
categories: learning-notes

---

## week 1: what is music?

### 流行音乐和古典音乐比较

classical music：
1) a somewhat lesser emphasis on a strongly defined regular beat
2) greater prominence given to purely instrumental(untexted) music
3) employs mostly acoustic instruments
4) compositions are often longer and cast in broader forms
5) performances typically occur with and from notated music

popular music：
1) often features a strong sense of a regular beat
2) Usually texted(has lyrics)
3) Makes wider and more regular use of electronic instruments
4) Compositions are usually shorter and more repetitive
5) Performances usually don't rely on notated music

### How Do We Hear Music? Sound Waves and the Ear
In order to raise the pitch of a note by an octave (by the same letter name, we must double its frequency (in Hertz).

musical sound passes as it comes from the atmosphere and into our ear and then makes its way to the temporal lobe of the brain
1) outer ear
2) inner ear
3) basilar membrane
4) auditory nerve
5) primary auditory cortex

Q：A tonotopic region is one of the ear or the brain containing cilia or neurons that
A：respond only to particular frequencies (vibrations) of pitch

Q：Which part of the brain is primarily responsible for emotion (about how we feel about the music)?
A：Limbic system


Listening to music causes the same responses in regions of the brain as we experience when eating certain food, engaging in sex, and taking drugs of abuse. ✅

Q:What is the lowest sound of an overtone series called?
A:fundamental

All frequencies sounding above (and with) that lowest sound are:
overtones


To generate a pitch an octave higher on a violin, one must:
cut the length of the string exactly in half

Do the Chinese and Indonesian musical cultures have the same overtones as Western music?
yes

The Fundamental and the first four (indeed first six) overtones produce ________.
consonance

Which of the following does Richard Strauss use to suggest the advent of a super hero and coming of a new age in his tone poem Also sprach Zarathustra? (select two) ______ and _____ .
B. a rising melody and 
E. a trumpet as a solo instrument



















